--ENDCRYPT 4--

[WELCOME & FEATURES]
Welcome to ENDCRYPT 4. This is the fourth major version of the program that I've worked on,
and I'm proud to have finally finished it. In this version of the program a lot has changed,
notably:

- Text file encryption is now possible
- A fully featured options menu has been added
- Decryption is now faster, and manual mode has been removed (because it was useless)
- Key generation is now more efficient
- More encryption on top of your encryption
- An insane UTF-8 supported character list

There's a bit more to it than that, but most of the other changes are under the hood and you
won't even notice them. The program should run even faster than before and has even more
functionality, allowing you to send ridiculously long encrypted messages to your friends
even faster than before. It has also been streamlined to be as user-friendly as possible, so
it should NEVER crash (if it does, oops!).



[USING ENDCRYPT]
To use ENDCRYPT, simply type the number you want and press enter. This will choose the
corresponding menu item and take you through to the next screen. Pressing enter without typing
anything will return you to the previous menu in most instances, but there are some screens
where it won't.

The auto-file encryption works based on how you configure it in the options. By default, AFE
wants you to enter a file path. This only works on text-based files (more info in
[KNOWN ISSUES]). When entering a file path, you must include the file extension and file name.
For example, if I wanted to encrypt 'DirectX.log' in the 'Windows' folder, I would enter the
following file path:
C:\Windows\DirectX.log
In the options you can change the way this function works. You can change it to read from a set
file every time, make it always use AFE over manual text input, or disable the feature completely.



[OPTIONS]
"Encryption Export: ON/OFF"
Chooses whether ENDCRYPT.ini will be exported automatically, or will prompt to be exported.
There's no reason to turn this off.
Default is ON.

"ENDCRYPT_History.ini: ON/OFF"
Chooses whether or not to export every encryption to an external file called 'ENDCRYPT_History.ini'.
If left unchecked, this file will take up a lot of space very quickly.
Default is OFF.

"Fast Mode: ON/OFF"
Disables some delays to make navigation around the program a bit quicker. Important delays that
display errors or confirmations will not be skipped.
Default is OFF.

"Auto-File Encryption: AUTO/PROMPT/NEVER"
Allows you to toggle between three modes for AFE:
Auto - will always use AFE for encryption.
Prompt - will ask for manual mode or AFE.
Never - will always use manual mode.
Default is PROMPT.

"Auto-File Encryption: FILE PATH ENTRY"
Lets you turn file path entry on or off, and set a persistent path. Turning FPE off will make the
program read from the persistent path every time. The persistent path can be modified with the third
option.
Default is ON.

"Read Speed: OFF/SLOW/MED/FAST"
Adjusts the automatic delay when decrypting. The automatic delay is based on the length of the message
and the read speed, so it should always last a comfortable amount of time before it goes back to the
menu. You can adjust the speed here if it feels too slow or too fast, or you simply want to turn this
feature off.
Turning read speed off will require you to press ENTER to close the decryption screen.
Default is MED.



[ERROR LIST]
If its your first time using the program, you'll likely run into an error. Here's a list of all
the errors, as well as causes and fixes:

"ERROR: ENDCRYPT.ini doesn't exist."
ENDCRYPT.ini is the file created when you encrypt something. To fix this, use an encryption mode
first or download a pre-existing ENDCRYPT.ini.

"ERROR: File not found."
You will only see this if you use the auto-file encryption and enter a non-existent file path.
To fix this, simply enter a file path that works.

"ERROR: ENDCRYPT_Config.ini is missing its header."
The config file is missing [SETTINGS] from the top of the file. The program will automatically
generate a new config file if this is detected.

"ERROR: ENDCRYPT_Config.ini is missing data."
The config file is missing one of the keys inside. The program will automatically generate a new
config file if this is detected.

"ERROR: ENDCRYPT.ini is missing its header."
ENDCRYPT.ini is missing its header. To fix this, add the '[KEYS]' header to the top of the file.

"ERROR: ENDCRYPT.ini is missing data."
ENDCRYPT.ini is missing one of the keys. This should never happen naturally, and if someone gave
you a file that displayed this error then there is no fix. ENDCRYPT requires all four keys to
decrypt text.
 


[KNOWN ISSUES]
If you decrypt a message and then delete the contents of ENDCRYPT.ini, it will give you an
error but still tell you what the message said. This is due to the program storing the
decrypted message in memory.

Using AFE on a non-text file (like an image or video) will crash the program.

Some choices in the menu haven't been fully tested. ENDCRYPT should never crash, but if it
does it's because you entered an input I didn't consider. I think I've caught all of these, but
a couple might still exist.

Pressing enter during a decryption will close the program when it returns to the menu. This is
because it queues the enter press and executes it when it returns, which closes the program.



[CLOSING NOTES]
I hope you enjoy messing around with this program as much as I enjoyed making it. It's not
very useful or practical, but I started developing this back in 2016 as a programming project
that I've decided to see through until its as fully featured as possible. Thank you for
reading, and thank you for downloading this program.

If you need to email me you can do so at contact@stupidcat.uk.
You can also contact me on Discord, in my server (https://discord.gg/gzWsWNA) or directly
(emapex).



--CHANGELOG--

[V4-B51-R2]
- Fixed a crash when entering an invalid encryption mode.
- Compiled the program differently so that everything is contained in the .exe.

[V4-B50-R1]
- V4 released.
